# biweekly-report-2-siju9917
biweekly-report-2-siju9917 created by GitHub Classroom



BiWeekly Report 2: Simon Julien (Partnered with: Jackson Curry)

For this BiWeekly report Simon Julien and Jackson Curry have decided to work together once they realized that future projects in this class could include extremely interesing collaborative projects from them since they both work in the same research group as new grad students here at CU Boulder. The nature of our research is modeling and designing a power grid that can sustain 100% renewable power generation and emergin sustainable technology. There are some very complex topics that are involved in this research because some of our technology is not yet ready for the power grid to entirely ditch fossil fuels and adopt sustainable tech. Much of this tech development will require smart devices that have massive application to deep learning and training based on power grid data, weather data, power consumption data, etc. on the power grid. 

This weeks report has been developed into 4 main parts. First, Simon's project last week was to develop his own personal "documentation" for Tensor Flow. Simon thought that this was extremely useful to use as an encyclopedia/reference, that he wanted to keep adding to it as he discovered new implementations or synatax week to week. This is included however this week only a few new syntax and functions were discovered and added to the documentation. By the end of the year though it will be a nice reference of TensorFlow functions and syntax.

Secondly, Simon and Jackson wanted to stay aligned with class for a portion of the project to connect the math we have learned to TF. This is done in our implementaitons section wehere we use TF and the Cifar dataset to implement and show the benefits of things such as random erasing image augmentation, batch normalization, residual networks, inception, VGG's etc. Tutorials and brute force development of code from scratch for our interests were used interchangeably in this section.

Another file is the on Grid Forming inverters: As we look to develop a 100% renewable power grid, there are challenges that many researchers and institutions (such as the National Renewable Energy Lab or Hodge Research Group here at CU) need to solve before this is possible. One of the largest challenges lies in the loss "inertia" in the dynamics of the AC power system. When we replace fossil fuels (typically with large spinning masses) for inverter-based solor photovoltaics, we lose inherent inertia that maintains the stability of the power system and prevents the power grid from cascading into massive blackouts. One of the leading proposed solutions for maintaining a stable power grid with a massive loss of inertia on the power grid, is to develop "grid forming inverters" for solar photovoltaics. These inverters would be able to read the parameters that indicate the state of the grid at the node that they are connected in the mesh network of transmission, and then adjust their behavior premptively to prevent cascading failures in frequency harmonics, voltage imbalances, or current surges. So how do we make these smart enough to make these predictions? This assignment shows how time series forecasting through deep learning tensorflow could be used to make these predictions by only reading the state of the grid at a singular node in the mesh transmission network. Please note to put this together, we followed very closely this tutorial https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/structured_data/time_series, but used power grid dynamics data (including voltage magnitude, voltage phase angle, current across the inverter circuit, and dynamics current magnitude swings) instead of the test dataset that the tutorial implements. For this week we just wanted to do some preliminary implementation of this scientific/engineering application of renewable grid modeling, so some of the blocks of our code are identical to those implemented in the tutorial. In future weeks, when we build out these smart predictive models for grid forming inverters, we will make sure and implement the full scripts ourselves. This notebook is basically a demonstration of the potential for this project using code from a different context of time series modeling.  We have made sure to describe and interject our understanding and commments to show interaction and involved thinking even with the code blocks that are taken from the tutorial on time series forecasting.

Lastly, we have performed surragate modelling section:
For this research are we making large-scale traffic/powergrid cosimulations.  Since these simulations take so long to run we aren't able to test every set of parameters that we would like for these simulations.  Thus we result to surrogate modeling to create a generalizable function for our simulation outputs where we don't have real data. 


